# DQN-MSS
Solving Maximal Stable Set problem via Deep Reinforcement Learning
This is the instruction file of the whole Project.
-----------------------------------------------------
In our zip file, there are four main folders and one requirement.txt

In requirement.txt, we list all the required python libs and packages in our project.

A. Folder graph_test

* This folder contains last 20 complement graph of training graphs generated by the program Env.py via two generation models, I saved them in this folder in DIMACS format, which was a common format for describing graphs on which Cliquer Tools could be easily applied.  

* Why complement graph? Since the Cliquer is a good tool used for finding the maximum clique, and the maximum stable set of an undirected graph is the maximum clique of its complement graph, so the program should convert the graph to complement graph first.

*** I already put some test graph files in this folder, you should DELETE THEM before every round of your test!

*** Before you run our codes, you need to change the output file PATH at line 123 in Env.py to your local PATH

-----------------------------------------------------
B. Folder score_result

* The folder contains score.txt, storing all the output results from our Deep-RL models, in which Episode index, number of nodes, the score (Size of the maximum stable set found) and the set of nodes are saved in lines.

* I already put a score file in this folder, you should DELETE it before every round of your test!

* The folder also contains greedy.txt, storing all the output results of Greedy models in which the format is similar as above.

*** Before you run our codes, you need to change the output file PATH at line 57 and 59 in main.py to your local PATH

* This folder also contains five comparison file, recording both output of our RL models, Greedy Algorithm, and output of Cliquer tools. These txt files are used for a quick look into our result. They are tested in cases of 15-node graph, 10,000 episodes, 30-node graph, 15000 episodes, and 30-node graph, 50000 episodes.

-----------------------------------------------------
C. Folder code

* This folder contains 5 main Python File, for detailed functions, please refer to our report. After install those needed packages, you can start your test directly by running file main.py (Please change those lines containing PATH to your local PATH before running! ) Then it will output scores files (RL model) and greedy files (Greedy Algorithm) in Folder score_result. ReplayBuffer.py is used for experience replay, Q.py is used for building Q-function Networks, Env.py is used for building the RL enviroment.

* This folder also contains the shell script exe.sh, which is used for running Cliquer tool in Folder Cliquer by reading DICMAC format graph files stored in Folder graph_test. You can directly run it on your shell/terminal (Very convenient for Linux or MacOS). 

*** Before you run our codes, you need to change the reading file PATH  in exe.sh to your local PATH

-----------------------------------------------------
D. Folder Cliquer

* Folder Cliquer contains the given Cliquer tool, developed by Patric Östergård, for detailed instruction, please refer to https://users.aalto.fi/~pat/cliquer.html 

* The execution file Basic is used for finding Maximum Cliques of any given graphs formed by non-isolated points.  (Please note that Cliquer will ignore those “isolated ” nodes when there is neither an edge starting from it nor an edge ending at it)

* Use exe.sh in Folder code to apply this tool

